feat: add MCP prompts support via markdown files (#715)
apollographql/apollo-mcp-server: docs/source/prompts.mdx

---
title: Define MCP Prompts
---

> Apollo MCP Server supports [MCP prompts](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/prompts), which are reusable prompt templates that AI clients can discover and use. Prompts provide guided workflows that help AI models use your GraphQL tools more effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apollo MCP Server supports [MCP prompts](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/prompts)—reusable prompt templates that AI clients can discover and use. These prompts operate as guided workflows that help AI models use your GraphQL tools more effectively.
```

## How prompts work

> Each prompt is a Markdown file with YAML frontmatter that defines its name, description, and arguments. The file body is the prompt template, which includes `{{argument}}` placeholders that the AI client substitutes with values at runtime.

Reviewer: @DaleSeo, is there a good example of what these placeholders can be substituted with? Providing a concrete example here would be very helpful to a reader.

Reviewer: This became clear to me as I read on, and there are clear examples in this doc. Now I think it's fine to leave as-is.

> When the server starts, it loads all `.md` files from a `prompts/` directory in the working directory. If the directory exists and contains valid prompt files, the server advertises prompt support to MCP clients via the `prompts` capability.

Reviewer: @DaleSeo, in this first sentence, do we mean "the server loads .md files from the prompts directory, which exists in the working directory" or "the server loads .md files from the prompts directory to the working directory"? As written, the sentence could be interpreted either way, so let's adjust the wording to clarify the actual behavior.

Reviewer: The next section clarified this for me.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the server starts, it loads all `.md` files from a `prompts/` directory, which is in the working directory. If that directory contains valid prompt files, the server advertises prompt support to MCP clients with the `prompts` feature.
```

2. Use GetUserOrders to retrieve their recent orders{{limit}}
3. Summarize each order with its status, total, and date
```

### Frontmatter fields

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | `string` | Yes | Unique identifier for the prompt, used in `prompts/get` requests |
| `description` | `string` | No | Human-readable description shown to AI clients |
| `arguments` | list | No | Arguments the prompt accepts |

The `arguments` list supports the following fields:

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | `string` | — | Argument name, used as the `{{name}}` placeholder in the template |
| `description` | `string` | — | Description shown to AI clients |
| `required` | boolean | `false` | Whether the argument must be provided |

### Template placeholders

Use `{{argument_name}}` in the template body to reference arguments. When an AI client calls `prompts/get` with argument values, the server replaces each placeholder with the corresponding value.

Placeholders that don't match any provided argument are left unchanged in the output.

## Example

> Given this prompt file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this prompt file is provided...
```

```markdown title="prompts/astronaut_bio.md"
---
name: astronaut_bio
description: "Look up an astronaut and write a short biography"
arguments:
  - name: name
    description: "The astronaut's name to search for"
    required: true
---

1. Search for an astronaut named "{{name}}"
2. Use GetAstronautDetails to get their full profile
3. Write a concise biography covering their background and missions
```

An AI client calling `prompts/get` with the following request:

```json
{"name": "astronaut_bio", "arguments": {"name": "Chris Hadfield"}}
```

> Receives a single user message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...the client receives a single user message:
```

```text
1. Search for an astronaut named "Chris Hadfield"
2. Use GetAstronautDetails to get their full profile
3. Write a concise biography covering their background and missions
```

## Behavior

> - **No configuration required.** The server automatically detects the `prompts/` directory. No changes to your YAML config file are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No configuration required.** The server automatically detects the `prompts/` directory.
```
